Fixes #68 and fixes #44 - Fixup README based on markdown lint rules and code based on flake8 (#73)
tl-its-umich-edu/course-inventory: README.md

# course-inventory

## Overview

> The course-inventory application is designed to gather current-term Canvas LMS data. 
> This includes information about courses, enrollments, users, and course activity. 
> This application also includes data about the usage of technology for remote learning,
> including BlueJeans, Zoom, and MiVideo --
> in order to inform leadership at the University of Michigan about the status and utilization of tools for teaching and learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The course-inventory application is designed to gather current-term Canvas LMS data about courses, 
enrollments, users, and course activity --
as well as data about the usage of other technologies, including BlueJeans, Zoom, and MiVideo --
in order to inform leadership at the University of Michigan about the usage of tools for teaching and learning.
```

2. Set up a MySQL database. 
    
    If you plan to run the application using `virtualenv`, you will need to have MySQL installed on your machine.

>     You will also need a test database and user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You will also need to create a test database and user. 
```

#### With Docker

This project provides a `docker-compose.yml` file to help simplify the development and testing process. 
Invoking `docker-compose` will set up MySQL and a database in a container. 
It will then create a separate container for the job, which will ultimately insert records into the MySQL container's database.

Before beginning, perform the following additional steps to configure the project for Docker.

1. Create two paths at your user's root level (i.e. `~`): `secrets/course-inventory` and `data/course-inventory`.

    The `docker-compose.yml` file specifies two volumes that are mapped to these directories. 
    The first, `secrets/course-inventory`, is mapped to `config/secrets`. 
    The application expects to find the `env.json` file in this location. 
    The second, `data/course-inventory`, is mapped to the project's `data` directory. 

>     This which allows later access to CSV files optionally generated by the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This will allow later access to CSV files optionally generated by the application.
```

2. Move the `env.json` file to `secrets/course-inventory` so it will be mapped into the `job` container.

    ```bash
    mv config/secrets/env.json ~/secrets/course-inventory
    ```

Once these steps are completed, you can use the standard `docker-compose` commands to build and run the application.

1. Build the images for the `mysql` and `job` services.

    ```bash
    docker-compose build
    ```

2. Start up the services.

    ```bash
    docker-compose up
    ```

`docker-compose-up` will first start the MySQL container and then the job container. 
When the job finishes, the job container will stop, but the MySQL container will continue running.
This allows you to enter the container and execute queries.

```bash
docker exec -it course_inventory_mysql /bin/bash
mysql --user=ci_user --password=ci_pw
```

Use `^C` to stop the running MySQL container,
or -- if you used the detached flag `-d` with `docker-compose up` -- use `docker-compose down`.

Data in the MySQL database will persist after the container is stopped. 

> The MySQL data is stored in a mapped volume `.data/` in the project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MySQL data is stored in a volume mapped to the `.data/` directory in the project. 
```

  (.yaml) defining the pod.

* By default, the application will run with the assumption that the JSON configuration file will be named `env.json`. 
  However, `inventory.py` will also check for the environment variable `ENV_PATH`. 
  This variable can be set using the OpenShift pod configuration file. 
  To use a different name for the JSON file, 
  set `ENV_PATH` to a path beginning with `config/secrets/` and ending with the file name. 
  
  * To ensure that the `yoyo-migrations` dependency can run successfully in a containerized environment,
    the environment variable `USER` should be defined. 

>   * The value of `USER` is the name of the project running the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For the value of `USER`, use the name of the project running the job.
```

### Implementing a New Job

The application was designed with the goal of being extensible -- in order to aid collaboration,
integrate new data sources, and satisfy new requirements.
This is primarily made possible by enabling the creation of new jobs,
which are managed by the `run_jobs.py` file (the starting point for Docker).
When executed, the file will attempt to run all jobs provided in the value for the `JOB_NAMES` variable in `env.json`. 
Only jobs previously defined in the codebase will be actually executed.

Follow the steps below to implement a new job that can be executed from `run_jobs.py`.
All the changes described below (minus the configuration changes) should be included in the pull request.

1. Place files used only by the new job within a separate, appropriately named package (e.g. `course_inventory` or `online_meetings`).

2. Make use of variables from the `env.json` configuration file by importing the `ENV` variable from `environ.py`.

3. Ensure you have one function or method defined that will kick off all other steps in the job.

>    It should return a list of dictionaries, with each naming a data source used during the job.
>    Additional it should providing a timestamp of when that data was updated (or collected).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It should return a list of dictionaries,
   each containing the name of the data source used and a timestamp of when the data was updated (or collected).
```

    
    These dictionaries will be used to create new records in the `data_source_status` table of the MySQL database.
    Each dictionary should have the following format:

    ```json
    {
        "data_source_name": "SOME_DATA_SOURCE",
        "data_updated_at": some_timestamp
    }
    ```

    If the data source provides a timestamp for the data, use that; otherwise, use the current time. 
    For consistency, `some_timestamp` should be generated using 
    [the `pandas` method `pd.to_datetime`](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.to_datetime.html).
    This accepts a number of time formats and objects and will return a `pd.Timestamp` object for single values.
    See the `run_course_inventory` entry function for the COURSE_INVENTORY job for an example. 

4. Add a new entry to the `ValidJobName` enumeration within `run_jobs.py`. 
   The name (on the left) should be in all capitals.
   The value (on the right) should be a period-delimited path string.

>    The first element is the package name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The first element is the package name,
```

>    The value (on the right) should be a period-delimited path string.
>    The first element is the package name.
>    The second is the module or file name, and the third is the name of the job's entry method or function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The value (on the right) should be a period-delimited path string,
   where the first element is the package name,
   the second is the module or file name, 
   and the third is the name of the job's entry method or function.
```

   See `run_jobs.py` for examples.

5. If you are introducing a new data source, you also need to add an entry to the `ValidDataSourceName` enumeration. 
   The name should be all capitals; the value has no meaning for the application, so `auto()` is sufficient.

6. Add the job name to the `JOB_NAMES` environment variable.

### Database Management and Schema Changes

Currently, the database is version-controlled and managed using the [`yoyo-migrations` Python library](https://ollycope.com/software/yoyo/latest/).
The migration files are located in the `db/migrations` directory.

To make changes to the database schema, perform the follow steps in order.

1. Add a new migration file to the `migrations` directory called `XXXX.add_something.py`.

>    `XXXX` is the next migration number (preceded by `0`s until the number is four digits)
>    `add_something` is an action describing the change made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `XXXX` should be the next migration number (preceded by `0`s until the number is four digits),
   and `add_something` should be an action describing the change made.
```
